the un's most senior official overseeing
Aid and reconstruction in Gaza has said
the world is failing innocent civilians
there after nearly a year of War ZD KARK
has been addressing the UN Security
Council and she described her assessment
of the ongr situation in Gaza as somber
and dark I can tell you every day that
passes life in Gaza is unlivable the
risks are high disease is uh
continuously at risk of outbreak
children are not in school people are
living in tents this is not the Gaza of
before the 7th of October it is Hell on
Earth so every day that passes impacts
people's
lives well let's speak to George morera
D Silva the executive director of un Ops
that's the UN Agency for projects and
services he's also the under Secretary
of the under Secretary General of the
United Nations and was at that session
that we played a bit of just now at the
United Nations today thanks very much
for joining us here on BBC News a really
Stark assessment there from your
colleague sigd describing Gaza as hell
on Earth uh we've been covering the
situation on uh BBC for close to a year
we speak to Aid agencies we speak to
people on the ground um what do you
think needs to change Beyond of course
calls from many organizations for a
ceasefire
thank you for um inviting me I I went
with Sig we both went to the security
Council today and de brief the the the
Council on the situation in in Gaza and
we were very clear about what is really
needed we need a ceasefire we need
humanitarian law to be fully respected
we need unimpeded access to Aid to those
most in it um but now we we're also able
to to show that what we have been asked
to do we delivered as you may recall uh
some months ago the security Council
decided to call for the creation of a
mechanism to facilitate the
operationalization of Aid into Gaza to
overcome the bottlenecks the delays the
redundancies the multiple inspections
and unops uh uh with the with the senior
coordinator for uh humanitarian Aid and
reconstruction in Gaza we work together
finding a solution that deliver results
today at the secret Council i' I've I've
been able to to brief members on the
fact that through this mechanism with
One Stop Shop uh database to approve all
Aid and also with the monitors on the
ground to speed up delivery we were able
to have all the The Crossings and all
the corridors to togethera being uh uh
operating in a smoother and swiftly uh
manner but at the same time it's very
clear that this is not about logistics
we may fix everything outside Gaza to
have uh less transloading less
inspections uh smoother operations um
better coordination more producti
ability at the end of the day if things
inside Gaza doesn't improve there is no
possibility to reach those most in need
um some people watching this might say
well that's all very well intended the
goal to try and have mechanism to try
and get more help and Aid into Gaza but
the very fact of the matter is that
that's not happening and it's politics
only really that can change
that yes it's political will it's
precisely the topic do you really
believe that you and sigd can change the
mood at the UN when it hasn't changed
for months on
end at least we removed other excuses or
pretexts because Logistics uh were uh
presented very often as an issue now
there is no no excuse um the the
mechanism is functioning uh in a well
manner so now it's very clear that the
problem is inside Gaza and it's not just
about DEC conflicting it's also about
these incidents that are not accidents
are incidents with un uh uh convoys
being targeted uh with a with a no
capacity to operate in in safe
conditions with humanitarians that have
lost their lives including a colleague
of mine from my agency yobs so this is
the moment where the political will
needs to Prevail
it's the moment where uh
um it's it's fundamental to to ensure
that uh we put in place our best
political and diplomatic capacities to
overcome this situation and George I
wanted to ask you about this because
Sigrid um actually on her visit to
Israel did meet senior Israeli officials
including the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu what did she say about that
conversation um and does she believe
that anything may have changed as a
consequence of that
chat Sig has has managed to engage at
the political level with all parties in
the in the region and this has been an
important element to ensure uh that we
would have um always the chance to
engage and to better understand uh the
each other's position now we have more
data to reveal that issues need to be
fixed again through political will you
remember uh I came to to to to BBC and
other occasions that we were not knowing
exactly uh the rational for rejection of
materials for dual use now you go to our
database and you know exactly uh how
much Consignments have been approved how
many have been requested how many have
been rejected and why for instance from
the rejected Consignments out of the 37
Consignments that have been rejected 31
was just for the fact that it was
through unra so the fact that unra is a
consigner or a cons is a reason
to stop this so now everyone is more
accountable so you can ask the questions
with the data and with the facts okay
thank you very much for explaining some
of the work that you're doing um that's
George morera D Silva the executive
director of un Ops the UN Agency for
projects and services speaking to me
from the United Nations in New York